General Asthetic Milestones:

Renaisance Historical Fantasy
Black Powder and Steam Engines exist
Technological Realism
Industrial Technology is New and Highly Regional
Humans are a Small Force in the World
Focus on Sailing and Trade by Sea

Tale of the Troika
Roadside Picnic

Kaiju-like Gods. Immense, powerful creatures.
"Dead" Gods become mortal in scale, and weak, but still alive.

Traditional Dwarves are scary territorial cave-dwellers, with fiercely battleing clanholds, like a cross between Neanderthals and Vikings.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Roadside_Picnic
http://bleedingplay.wordpress.com/geiger/
http://lens.blogs.nytimes.com/2011/08/04/where-children-sleep/
"Guns, Germs, and Steel", by Neil Gaiman

Necromancy takes a fragment of your soul and mind, and places it into a puppet. It can be a corpse, a carefully constructed statue, a suit of armor, etc. The shard of the soul is bound to the puppet forever, and will die with it. The creator's spirit is lesser for each puppet they make as well.

Words of Power:

Communal Casting: Distributes duration between touched people.

There is a reason magic is stronger in certain locations. Gnomes, while mining, discovered a dimensionally "thin" spot, where the universe of pure creation nearly intersected with their own. Using a powerful ritual and at great cost, they were able to pull a shard of this universe through the gap. The shard was crystaline, but mutable; its color, and even its exact shape and dimensions, seemed to change from day to day. 
They studied the shard for many years, calling it the Idya. Scholars would lose themselves in its study for days on end, though it often felt like mere hours to them. In fact, the shard was distorting time and space, causing it to slow or quicken chaotically within its vicinity. Eventually, they learned how to control this effect, and used it to create powerful rituals capable of peering across great distances, and even transporting objects and people instantaneously.
Fearing invasion by a nearby Kobold nation, the gnomes used the Idya's immense power to uproot their entire capitol city, and retreat through time and space, taking the Idya with them.
Though the Idya was gone, its effects still echo across time, hinting at where, but not when, the gnomes have fled.
The heart of the City of Forever is the Idya.

Plot Hook Ideas:
Selfish Gnome seeks power for himself, and steals a piece of the Idya. A chase through time and space ensues.
With it gone, the Elves, Dragons, and other Gnomes who once enjoyed incredible longevity began to age once more.
Instead of nuclear technology, Kobolds have petroleum, napalm, and flight tech.
The Idya is what allows the Archons to exercise power over the world, and used rituals similar to what the Gnomes discovered to bind themselves to them in ancient times. The shards of Idya that they found were actually formed by the Idya that went back in time with the Gnomes, and shattered. The palaces of the Archons all have a protected shard of this Idya somewhere within, as does the palace in Medroy.
A climatic event occured in the City of Forever, when the PCs travel back in time to when the Archons were mortal beings, and in trying to get back home had to destroy the Idya, shattering it into pieces. These pieces fell into the hands of warring people who, with time, would became the Archons.
Idya is a shard of pure creation, and is highly responsive to emotion and thought. It takes on the form of that which something most wants. The gnomes needed escape from the invading army, so the original Idya became a tool capable of defending
Magic Concepts: Anyone can take a feat that allows them to perform Ritual Magic. Casters get it as a class ability. Ritual Magic costs components, and covers many powerful and specific spell effects, such as Wish, Teleport, Bless Water, Tongues, etc. Crib from 4th ed. Ritual Magic.

