+2 Dex, Cha. -2 Con

A race of elves native to the dark forests of Chosh, and natural caves running deep into the earth. They are exceptionally long-lived compared to many other mundane races, and tend to seem distant and alien to outsiders. They dislike bright light, and are naturally nocturnal, though many have adapted to diurnal schedules when in outside lands. They have an affinity for minerals and crystals, decorating their clothing and bodies with them, and great skill in ornate metalworking. They are also known for their arcane prowess, especially when in regard to rare and magical metals, and have been accredited for the creation of many great and powerful artifacts.

Private Information:
Aging: Old songs your people sing tell that you were born from deep within the earth, and as a Darvali, it is your fate to return to it some day. The small studs of crystal which dot your people’s skin, though often taken for decoration by outsiders, are actually a natural sign of aging. After roughly 50 years, the first of these small studs of crystal begin to appear in symmetrical patterns on the skin, in hues of violet, blue, and exotic colors which appear as black to any but the Darvali. They usually first appear on the face, hands, shoulders, or feet, and spread to cover other areas with the passing decades. The appearance of these signifies that a Darvali has reached their physical peak. As time continues they form complex multi-hued patterns, the most extensive of which belong to only the most elderly Dark Elves.

Should a Darvali near the end of their 200 year lifespan, as the crystals studding their skin having grown longer and more pronounced, they begin to fall into an increasingly withdrawn state, drifting through their days with hazy eyes and muttering speech. As a form of senility sets in, many can be found lingering in old, unused passageways and deep caverns for weeks and months at a time. What they experience at this time is unknown, but such elves eventually disappear into the depths, sometimes traveling many miles underground, until they eventually reach their destination. They seem to gather in and around natural wells of magic, where the plane of Fairie runs most closely to the Material. Once there, the crystals on their bodies grow at a great pace, until they become a single, solid crystal rooted deep within the earth. These places are often treated as sacred grounds, and Darvali will make pilgrimages to such caverns to sing stories, and commune with their ancestors.

Drow: Long ago, a group of your kin sought to avoid the fate, and delved into esoteric arcane studies. 
