[b]Base Races - The Flinds:[/b]
Medium Humanoid
Ability Scores: +2 Con/Dex, -2 Cha

Flinds are hardy, doglike humanoids known for their resiliance, strong sense of social order, and their physical prowess. Though they can be found throughout the world, Flinds traditionally live in communities formed by a series of Houses, with anywhere from tens to hundreds of members. Each House is similar to a family, in that its members share a surname, and owe their loyalty to the head of their House, but it is also like a guild, in that each house specializes in certain trades, and individuals may leave a house to join another one more in line with their interests. Houses are not limited to one location either; many of the larger Houses span many settlements. The closest thing to Flind nobility are the Great Houses, which are exclusive of all but the best names in their trade, and are highly sought after for their expertise.

Male and female Flinds look nearly identical, and their culture doesn't make a distinction between the sexes except in courtship. Female Flinds are generally larger than males, so other races tend to confuse them, or assume most Flinds they encounter to be male. Flinds are rarely concerned with correcting others about this mistake, unless it's important to the situation.

Though Flinds within a House do marry, childbirth is exceptionally dangerous and difficult for female Flinds, and giving birth to and raising children is treated as a trade of its own. Most Flinds are born into a Creche-House, where they are given their birth-name, and are raised and taught by a body of mentors. Flinds mature more quickly, and live briefer lives than Humans, and reach adulthood after 14 years. When they come of age, they adopt a new House, choose a new name for themselves, and begin to learn a trade. Outside of the Creche-Houses, raising children is generally reserved for high-ranking members of the Houses, and these children are generally groomed to marry into other Houses, and strengthen the bonds between them.

[b]Flindish Legends - The Skin-Thief:[/b]
Sononbryth, the "Skin-Thief"... it was a boogeyman, used to teach Flind pups the value of hospitality, and kindness toward strangers. It was said that the Sononbryth had once come to a Flind village, as a weary, rag-clad traveller, begging for food and a place to stay. The people of the village had been suffering from drought and hardships of their own, and had little to spare for this stranger, so they drove the traveller out into the desert. In its anger, the Sononbryth returned that night, having shed it's Flindish skin to reveal the body of a man-shaped reptilian beast. It visited the village with suffering, killing and devouring all but a single villager, who escaped the beast's onslaught and ran into the night, with only the clothes on his back. It is said that he took it upon himself to travel from settlement to settlement, and share his story with others, lest they repeat the mistakes of his village.

Though it is a widely known legend through the region, the natives of the Choshan Deserts would assure you that the Sononbryth is very real, and still moves through the desert, shifting between its many skins. Some even say that, if you can appease it, it will teach you how to change skins as well. Respish, the Elf-King of the Bandits, was said to have learned the secret of skin-shedding from the Sononbryth, using the skin of a great bear-dog to unite the tribes under one banner.

Mokeer of Akegge, Flind Warlord, didn't know if she believed the legends around the Sononbryth, but she had chosen to adopt the creature's name to strike fear into the hearts of superstitious bandits. Her armor was fashioned after these legends, with a helm shaped like a crocodile's head, and armor patterned after reptilian scales. Hers wasn't a mission to teach kindness and generosity to children, however, but to lead a band of peacekeeping warriors, who hunted down raiders, who would extort and loot weaker settlements.

House Hnan had needed warriors, and 

<><><>



Flinds are tall, hardy doglike humanoids. Flinds from Chosh and Nujora have a strong shamanic tradition, and many live in semi-nomadic settlements. Flinds from  though mature more quickly, and live shorter lives than humans. Their society makes no distinctions between sexes, save for in biology. Birthing is intensely painful and problematic for female Flinds, and many females choose not to breed. Female Flinds that elect to bear children are often looked up to and are higly respected, often serving as a leader of sorts. Other Flinds (regardless of gender) take on the role of the clan's Child-Rearer (Perhaps Creache-Master?), who raise large groups of children. This is also considered a position of power since the children owe their learning and a good deal of their loyalty to their Teacher/Rearer.\par
\par
Flind society places a great weight on the needs of the group over the needs of the individual, and this is a value that many Flinds hold in great importance. Their social structure is comprised of a series of Households (usually comrised of the children and immediate family of a single female Flind, who leads the House) who each elect a leader

Family groups (Houses? Clans?) exist within tribes, and form a sub-unit of their society. The matron of a house often heads this group, and all her children are socially benieth her.

Flinds are given a name at birth, but it usually has no meaning. They assume a new name at their comming of age which defines them, commonly their function or position in society, or something else.