Base Races - Kenku:
Native to the highlands of Madavia, Kenku are birdlike humanoids remeniscent of crows and magpies. Their feathers vary between glossy shades of midnight blue, black, deep green, and brown, and their hands and feet resemble talons. They possess long beaks which make up most of their head, and feathered wings capable of limited flight.

The Kenku of Madavia traditionally live in rocky highlands, in vertical settlements built on and into the cliffsides. Kenku are well-integrated into foriegn lands, and closely knit populations can be found in most large cities. Outside of their homeland, Kenku have a reputation as traders and scholars at best, and cowards and thieves at worst.

Kenku:
Speed: Move 30', Fly 40' (average, glide)
Abilities: +2 Dexterity +2 Wisdom, -2 Constitution
Kenku are quick and observant, but have frail builds.
Observant: Kenku recieve a +2 racial bonus to Perception and Stealth.
Gifted Linguist: Kenku recieve a +4 racial bonus to Linguistics, and learn 2 new languages for every skill point they spend in Linguistics.
Winged: Kenku can glide, and always treat Fly as a class skill.

Racial Ability - Glide:
Kenku are capable of limited flight: you may Fly 40' (average) as a move action, with the following limitations: you must begin gliding from at least 5' above the ground, and descend at least 5' for every 20' you move horizontally. You may not ascend, or hover while gliding, but may descend in a tight spiral at up to half of your Fly speed. If you move less than half of your Fly speed in a round, you begin to fall. If carrying a Medium load while gliding, you are checked, and must succeed at a DC 10 Fly check to stay airborn, or you begin to fall. You may not glide while carrying a heavy load, or while exhausted.






A tribe of peoples loosely descended from the earliest known human civilizations. They are a hearty people, living on the frozen tundra along the eastern coasts of Faustrad. Their way of life depends heavily on the sea, for fish, fur, icepearls, and other goods. Icepearl divers are reckless sorts, who brave the frigid arctic deeps in search of a rare variety of pearl native to the coasts, few of whom see long careers. The Northern Saatish tribes are primarily nomadic, but others form settlements, the largest of which is Svenhalsh.

They have a close relationship with their snowhounds, which are viewed as equals in many respects within their culture. They are considered peers to hunters and warriors, frequently feature as heroes in their legends, and are given the same burial rites. Saatish snowhounds are bred from wolves native to the coldest wastes of the far north, and share a magical connection with ice and cold.

The Saatish dress in furs and skins gathered from tundra and oceanic animals, and stitched with sinew. Their decorations and jewelry consist of iridescent abalone shell, bone, walrus ivory, cold-worked silver, and pearls. They rarely use wood, metal, or stone in their constructions, instead building their homes out of bone lashed together with sinew, and covered with many layers of animal skin. Their homes are primarily built atop shallow pits dug into the ground, which is covered with layers of furs and skins.

Icepearl Charm:
Aura faint abjuration and transmutation; CL 5th
Slot neck; Price 3,500 gp; Weight 1 lb.
Description Northern shamans create these talismans from the brilliant blue icepearls found within shellfish native to the Demon Sea. These are highly valued by Saatish hunters and warriors, as they confer many benefits to those who travel through the northern lands. First, it allows the wearer to travel across snow at his normal speed, leaving no tracks. Second, the charm enables him to travel at normal speeds across even the most slippery ice, as though it were dry stone. Third, the charm warms the wearer, as if he were affected by an endure elements spell. Finally, the charm can be invoked once, to cast protection from energy against cold damage as a 3rd level druid, which will absorb up to 36 points of cold energy damage for 30 minutes, after which the pearl crumbles to dust, and the charm becomes a mundane silver amulet worth 500 gp.
Construction
Requirements Craft Wondrous Item, icepearl worth at least 250 gp; cat’s grace, endure elements, pass without trace; Cost 1,250 gp